.TH HBC 1 local
.SH NAME
hbc \- a compiler for Haskell B.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hbc
[ option ] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The syntax of
.I hbc
programs is described in the Haskell report.
.PP
.I Hbc
accepts several types of arguments:
.br
Arguments whose names end in `.hs' or `.has' are taken to be Haskell programs,
names ending in `.lhs' are taken to be literate scripts,
and `.o' are object files.
.PP
The following options are interpreted by 
.I hbc
.TP 10
.B \-1.2
Compile Haskell 1.2 instead of Haskell 1.3.
.TP
.B \-c
Suppress the loading phase and force an object file to be produced.
.TP
.BI \-o " output"
Name the output file
.IR output .
.TP
.BI \-i "path"
Prepend
.I path
to the include path.  If
.I path
is empty the whole include path is emptied.  An include path should be a colon
separated list of directories.
.TP
.B \-p
Emit code that enables profiling.
Use prof to get the profiling statistics.
.TP
.B \-pg
Emit code that enables profiling.
Use gprof to get the profiling statistics.
.TP
.B \-ph
Emit code that enables heap profiling.
Additional flags (see below) are needed when the program is run.
Use hp2ps to get a PostScript file.
.TP
.B \-S
Produce an `.s' assembler file.
.TP
.B \-T
Emit code to enable tracing.
.TP
.B \-t
don't do type checking.
.TP
.B \-cpp
run the C preprocessor before compilation.
.TP
.B \-no-pedantic
turn on most of the Haskell B. extensions.
.TP
.B \-noflags
do not decode runtime flags.
.TP
.B \-v
be verbose.
.PP
When the program is run it interprets the following flags:
.br
.TP 10
.BI \-H size
set the heapsize to
.IR size .
Default is 4 Mbyte.
.TP
.B \-B
makes the bell sound at each garbage collection.
.TP
.B \-T
turn on interactive program tracing.
.TP
\fB\-g[{g1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I module group.
.TP
\fB\-p[{p1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I producer
(function).
.TP
\fB\-m[{m1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I module.
.TP
\fB\-c[{c1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I construction.
.TP
\fB\-t[{t1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I type.
.PP
For further information about heap profiling read the HBC manual.
There may be more flags (they multiply).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The environment variable HBCDIR is used to find the place to look for the
various files used by the compiler.  The default value is /usr/local/lib/lmlc.
The environment variable LMLHEAP is used to determine the default heap size.
The environment variable can contain additional arguments to a program.
.SH FILES
.TP 25
.B $HBCDIR/bin/unlit
literate script preprocessor.
.TP
.B $HBCDIR/bin/curryp
the parser program.
.TP
.B $HBCDIR/bin/lmlcomp
the compiler.
.TP
.B $HBCDIR/hlib/lib.a
the library functions.
.TP
.B $HBCDIR/hlib/*.p
interface files.
.TP
.B $HBCDIR/hlib/runtime.o
the runtime system.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Bad for syntax errors.
Even worse for other errors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
hbi(1), hbcmake(1), hp2ps(1), http://www.cs.chalmers.se/~augustss/hbc/hbc.html
.SH BUGS
Bug, what's that?
