.TH LMLC 1 local
.SH NAME
lmlc \- a compiler for LML (Lazy ML)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lmlc
[ option ] files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The syntax of
.I lmlc
programs is described elsewhere.
.PP
.I Lmlc
accepts several types of arguments:
.br
Arguments whose names end in `.m' are taken to be lmlc programs,
`.o' are object files.
Names ending in `.lm' are taken to be literate scripts.
The C preprocessor is used on all `.m' and `.lm' files.
.PP
The following options are interpreted by 
.I lmlc
.TP 10
.B \-c
Suppress the loading phase and force an object file to be produced.
.TP
.BI \-o " output"
Name the output file
.IR output .
.TP
.B \-p
Emit code that enables profiling.
Use prof to get the profiling statistics.
.TP
.B \-pg
Emit code that enables profiling.
Use gprof to get the profiling statistics.
.TP
.B \-ph
Emit code that enables heap profiling.
Additional flags (see below) are needed when the program is run.
Use hp2ps to get a PostScript file.
.TP
.B \-S
Produce an `.s' assembler file.
.TP
.B \-T
Emit code to enable tracing.
.TP
.B \-t
don't do type checking.
.TP
.B \-G
just produce the G-code.
.PP
When the program is run it interprets the following flags:
.br
.TP 10
.BI \-H size
set the heapsize to
.IR size .
Default is 4 Mbyte.
.TP
.B \-B
makes the bell sound at each garbage collection.
.TP
.B \-T
turn on interactive program tracing.
.TP
\fB\-g[{g1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I module group.
.TP
\fB\-p[{p1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I producer
(function).
.TP
\fB\-m[{m1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I module.
.TP
\fB\-c[{c1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I construction.
.TP
\fB\-t[{t1,...}]\fP
Heap profiling by
.I type.
.PP
For further information about heap profiling read the LML manual.
There may be more flags (they multiply).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The environment variable LMLDIR is used to find the place to look for the
various files used by the compiler.  The default value is /usr/local/lib/lmlc.
The environment variable LMLHEAP is used to determine the default heap size.
The environment variable can contain additional arguments to a program.
.SH FILES
.TP 25
.B $LMLDIR/bin/unlit
literate script preprocessor.
.TP
.B $LMLDIR/bin/lmlp
the parser program.
.TP
.B $LMLDIR/bin/lmlcomp
the compiler.
.TP
.B $LMLDIR/lib/include/*
some type include files.
.TP
.B $LMLDIR/lib/lib.a
the library functions.
.TP
.B $LMLDIR/lib/parsed/*
parsed include files.
.TP
.B $LMLDIR/runtime.o
the runtime system.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Bad for syntax errors.
Even worse for other errors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lmli(1), lmlmake(1), hp2ps(1)
.SH BUGS
Bug, what's that?
